MAME 0.209

<p>With another month over, it’s time for another release, and
MAME 0.209 is sure to have something to interest everyone.  We’ve
cracked the encryption on the Fun World CPU blocks, making Fun World
Quiz, Joker Card, Mega Card, Power Card, Multi Win, Saloon and Nevada
playable.  Regular contributor shattered has added Кузьмич-Егорыч
(Kuzmich-Egorych), a Russian Mario Brothers bootleg running on heavily
modified Apple II hardware.  In other Apple II news, CD-ROM drives now
work with the Apple II SCSI card, and another batch of cleanly cracked
floppies has been added to the software list.  The NES SimCity prototype
has been added to the software list, along with MMC5 improvements to
support it, and better emulation for Famicom cartridges with on-board
sound chips.</p>

<p>Henrik Algestam has continued his Game &amp; Watch work, bringing
Popeye (wide screen) and Zelda to MAME.  Chess computer support has been
expanded with Fidelity Chess Challenger 3, and additional versions of
Applied Concepts Boris, and Novag Super Expert and Super Forte.  Newly
supported arcade games include Akka Arrh (an Atari title that failed
location testing), Little Casino II, a French version of Empire City:
1931, and additional versions of Dock Man and Street Heat.  A better
LM3900 op-amp model means Money Money and Jack Rabbit are no longer
missing the cassa (bass drum) channel, and mixing between music and
speech is improved.</p>

<p>Bug fixes include the Rockwell AIM 65 being returned to working
order, working support for multiple light guns on Linux from Kiall,
corrected screen freeze behaviour on Deniam hardware from cam900, and
better flashing characters on the Sinclair QL from vilcans.  You can
read about all the important changes in the <a
href="https://mamedev.org/releases/whatsnew_0209.txt">whatsnew.txt
file</a>, or get the source and Windows binary packages from <a
href="https://mamedev.org/release.html">the download page</a>.</p>
