MAME 0.207

<p>It’s almost the end of February, and more importantly it’s time for
MAME 0.207 to be released!  We’ve added two Nintendo Game &amp; Watch
titles this month: Fire (wide screen) and Snoopy Tennis.  If you’re at
all interested in plug-and-play TV games, this is going to be a huge
update, with all the newly-supported JAKKS Pacific titles, including
Disney Princess, Dragon Ball Z, Nicktoons, Spider-Man, and Wheel of
Fortune, as well as a number of matching Game-Keys.  The other big batch
of additions this month comes in the form of a whole lot of e-kara
cartridge dumps from Japan.  For younger players, we’re steadily filling
out the V.Smile software list, with eighteen newly supported titles.
The VGM software list has been updated with the latest video game music
rips, and we’ve added some more original floppy dumps and clean cracks
to the Apple II software lists.</p>

<p>With the latest improvements to the MIPS R4000 CPU, WD33C93 SCSI and
SGI Newport graphics emulation, it’s possible to install and run IRIX in
MAME.  This is a milestone achievement, and wouldn’t have been possible
without some amazing dedication and collaboration on the part of the
contributors and team members involved.  With the addition of graphics
and mouse support, Windows 1.0 runs on MAME’s Tandy 2000 emulation.
MAME continues to add additional variants of supported systems,
including the HP 9825T and the Esselte Modulab educational system.</p>

<p>Newly supported arcade games include an earlier prototype of Rise of
the Robots, bootlegs of Ghost Chaser Densei and The Glob, and additional
versions of Raiden Fighters 2, Guardian Storm, Pasha Pasha Champ, Lethal
Enforcers, and X-Men.  General usability improvements include friendlier
Apple II disassembly, the restoration of key map support in SDL builds
(Linux/macOS), and better initial window positioning on Windows.</p>

<p>You can read about all the additions, bug fixes and emulation
improvements in the <a
href="https://mamedev.org/releases/whatsnew_0207.txt">whatsnew.txt
file</a>, or get the source and Windows binary packages from <a
href="https://mamedev.org/release.html">the download page</a>.</p>
