MAME 0.210

<p>It’s time for the delayed release of MAME 0.210, marking the end of
May.  This month, we’ve got lots of fixes for issues with supported
systems, as well as some interesting additions.  Newly added hand-held
and tabletop games include Tronica’s Shuttle Voyage and Space Rescue,
Mattel’s Computer Chess, and Parker Brothers’ Talking Baseball and
Talking Football.  On the arcade side, we’ve added high-level emulation
of Gradius on Bubble System hardware and a prototype of the Neo Geo game
Viewpoint.  For this release, Jack Li has contributed an auto-fire
plugin, providing additional functionality over the built-in auto-fire
feature.</p>

<p>A number of systems have had been promoted to working, or had
critical issues fixed, including the Heathkit H8, Lola 8A, COSMAC
Microkit, the Soviet PC clone EC-1840, Zorba, and COMX 35.  MMU issues
affecting Apollo and Mac operating systems have been addressed.  Other
notable improvements include star field emulation in Tutankham, further
progress on SGI emulation, Sega Saturn video improvements, write support
for the CoCo OS-9 disk image format, and preliminary emulation for MP3
audio on Konami System 573 games.</p>

<p>There are lots of software list additions this month.  Possibly most
notable is the first dump of a Hanimex Pencil II cartridge, thanks to
the silicium.org team.  Another batch of cleanly cracked and original
Apple II software has been added, along with more ZX Spectrum +3
software, and a number of Colour Genie cassette titles.</p>

<p>That’s all we’ve got space for here, but there are lots more bug
fixes, alternate versions of supported arcade games, and general code
quality improvements that you can read about in the <a
href="https://mamedev.org/releases/whatsnew_0210.txt">whatsnew.txt
file</a>.  As always, you can get the source and Windows binary packages
from <a href="https://mamedev.org/release.html">the download
page</a>.</p>
