MAME 0.208

<p>Today we’re proud to bring you MAME 0.208.  There are some big
improvements to SunPlus SPG240/SPG280 audio emulation.  Not only does
this greatly improve the enjoyability of the JAKKS Pacific TV games,
it’s also timed perfectly for the addition of the Fisher-Price I Can
Play Piano music teaching system.  That’s not the only newly supported
music system this month: we’ve added Jumping Popira, and Popira 2 has
been promoted to working.  Continuing with the audio theme,
moralrecordings fixed BSMT 2000 4-bit ADPCM sample playback, cam900
added support for the VRC7 as a separate device with its unique
instrument patches, and schnitzeltony improved Atari POKEY performance
substantially. Newly supported TV games include Disney, Disney and
Friends, Justice League and SpongeBob SquarePants – The Fry Cook Games
from JAKKS Pacific, and XaviX titles Geigeki Go Go Shooting, Gururin
World and MX Dirt Rebel.  You’ll be able to enjoy the XaviX-based games
even more now with improvements to the colour palette.</p>

<p>The Nintendo Game &amp; Watch progress has continued with the
addition of Balloon Fight (new wide screen), Fire Attack, Octopus,
Parachute and Turtle Bridge.  You’ll notice some big software list
updates this month.  The TOSEC Spectrum Plus 3 disk images have been
imported, Spectrum Opus support has been added with software from World
of Spectrum, and SDX floppy controller support has been added to the
Memotech MTX along with a corresponding software list.  The PlayStation,
PC-98 and Saturn software lists have been updated with testing results
and new dumps, original Apple II disk images have been added as they’ve
been made available, another batch of Japanese e-kara cartridges has
landed, and coverage of Spanish V.Smile releases has been improved.
Speaking of software, AmatCoder has fixed a number of issues affecting
Amstrad CPC software.  The long-neglected Bally Astrocade home system
has had tape and lightpen support added in this release.</p>

<p>On the arcade side, we’ve added Atari’s TTL-based Rebound, early
English releases of Karate Champ, an earlier version of Nihon System’s
Omega, and world releases of DJ Boy and Gemini Wing.  In changes you
probably won’t notice, we’ve switched the toolchain used for building
official Windows binary releases from GCC 7 to GCC 8, and a new tools
package has been made available.</p>

<p>That’s all we’ve got space for here, but you can read about the rest
of the updates in the <a
href="https://mamedev.org/releases/whatsnew_0208.txt">whatsnew.txt
file</a>, or get the source and Windows binary packages from <a
href="https://mamedev.org/release.html">the download page</a>.</p>
