MAME 0.218

<p>It’s time for MAME 0.218, the first MAME release of 2020!  We’ve
added a couple of very interesting alternate versions of systems this
month.  One is a location test version of NMK’s GunNail, with different
stage order, wider player shot patterns, a larger player hitbox, and
lots of other differences from the final release.  The other is The Last
Apostle Puppetshow, an incredibly rare export version of Home Data’s
Reikai Doushi.  Also significant is a newer version Valadon Automation’s
Super Bagman.  There’s been enough progress made on Konami’s medal games
for a number of them to be considered working, including Buttobi
Striker, Dam Dam Boy, Korokoro Pensuke, Shuriken Boy and Yu-Gi-Oh Monster
Capsule.  Don’t expect too much in terms of gameplay though — they’re
essentially gambling games for children.</p>

<p>There are several major computer emulation advances in this release,
in completely different areas.  Possibly most exciting is the ability to
install and run Windows NT on the MIPS Magnum R4000 “Jazz” workstation,
with working networking.  With the assistance of Ash Wolf, MAME now
emulates the Psion Series 5mx PDA.  Psion’s EPOC32 operating system is
the direct ancestor of the Symbian operating system, that powered a
generation of smartphones.  IDE and SCSI hard disk support for Acorn
8-bit systems has been added, the latter being one of the components of
the BBC Domesday Project system.  In PC emulation, Windows 3.1 is now
usable with S3 ViRGE accelerated 2D video drivers.  F.Ulivi has
contributed microcode-level emulation of the iSBC-202 floppy controller
for the Intel Intellec MDS-II system, adding 8" floppy disk support.</p>

<p>Of course there are plenty of other improvements and additions,
including re-dumps of all the incorrectly dumped GameKing cartridges,
disassemblers for PACE, WE32100 and “RipFire” 88000, better Geneve 9640
emulation, and plenty of working software list additions.  You can read
all about it in the <a
href="https://mamedev.org/releases/whatsnew_0218.txt">whatsnew.txt
file</a>, or get the source and 64-bit Windows binary packages from <a
href="https://mamedev.org/release.html">the download page</a> (note
that 32-bit Windows binaries and “zip-in-zip” source code are no longer
supplied).</p>
