MAME 0.213

<p>It's really about time we released MAME 0.213, with more of
everything we know you all love.  First of all, we’re proud to present
support for the first Hegener + Glaser product: the “brikett” chess
computers, Mephisto, Mephisto II and Mephisto III.  As you can probably
guess, there’s an addition from Nintendo’s Game &amp; Watch line.  This
month it’s Mario’s Bombs Away.  On a related note, we’ve also added
Elektronika’s Kosmicheskiy Most, exported as Space Bridge, which is an
unlicensed total conversion of the Game &amp; Watch title Fire.  If you
haven’t played any of the handheld LCD games in MAME, you’re missing
something special – they look superb with external scanned and traced
artwork.</p>

<p>On the arcade side, we’ve added The Destroyer From Jail (a rare
Philko game), and alternate regional versions of Block Out and Super
Shanghai Dragon’s Eye.  The CD for Simpsons Bowling has been re-dumped,
resolving some long-standing issues.  With its protection
microcontroller dumped and emulated, Birdie Try is now fully playable.
Protection microcontrollers for The Deep and Last Mission have also been
dumped and emulated.  Improvements to Seibu hardware emulation mean
Banpresto’s SD Gundam Sangokushi Rainbow Tairiku Senki is now playable,
and sprite priorities in Seibu Cup Soccer have been improved.</p>

<p>In computer emulation, two interesting DOS compatible machines based
on the Intel 80186 CPU are now working: the Mindset Personal Computer,
and the Dulmont Magnum.  The Apple II software lists have been updated
to include almost all known clean cracks and original flux dumps, and
the Apple II gameport ComputerEyes frame grabber is now emulated.
We’ve received a series of submissions that greatly improve emulation of
the SWTPC S/09 and SS-30 bus cards.  On the SGI front, the 4D/20 now has
fully-working IRIX 4.0.5 via serial console, and a whole host of
improvements have gone into the Indy “Newport” graphics board emulation.
Finally, MAME now supports HDI, 2MG and raw hard disk image files.</p>

<p>You can read all about all the improvements and bug fixes in the <a
href="https://mamedev.org/releases/whatsnew_0213.txt">whatsnew.txt
file</a>, or get the source and Windows binary packages from <a
href="https://mamedev.org/release.html">the download
page</a>.</p>
