MAME 0.216

<p>With the end of November in sight, it’s time to check out MAME 0.216!
We’ve addressed the reported issues with last month’s bgfx update, and
made a whole lot of little improvements to MAME’s internal user
interface.  In particular, setting up controls should be easier, and
several issues affecting macOS users with non-English number format
settings have been fixed.  Some of the issues caused bad settings to be
written to INI files.  If you still don’t see the filter list panel on
the system selection menu, try removing the ui.ini file.</p>

<p>This month, we’re able to present two unreleased 1970s prototypes
from Italian developer Model Racing: their internal code names are Cane
and Orbite.  With the assistance of former Model Racing employees, the
source code was extracted from the original disks.  These games are
incomplete, but they provide a unique look into early CPU-based arcade
development.  Game &amp; Watch titles continue to be emulated, with the
addition of Mario The Juggler, and the panorama screen Mickey Mouse and
Donkey Kong Circus games in this release.</p>

<p>This release brings GameKing emulation to MAME.  The system-on-a-chip
used in this low-cost, low-resolution hand-held console from the early
2000s has been identified and emulated.  Games for the colour-screen
GameKing III are also playable.  Acorn BBC Micro emulation has been
re-worked to support internal expansion boards, and a number of
additional peripherals are now available.  ZX Spectrum emulation has
been enhanced with better open bus read behaviour and support for two
Miles Gordon Technology peripherals.</p>

<p>Of course, these are just the highlights.  You can read about the
rest of the fixes and improvements in the <a
href="https://mamedev.org/releases/whatsnew_0216.txt">whatsnew.txt
file</a>, or get the source and Windows binary packages from <a
href="https://mamedev.org/release.html">the download page</a>.</p>
