MAME 0.221

<p>Our fourth release of the year, MAME 0.221, is now ready.  There are
lots of interesting changes this time.  We’ll start with some of the
additions.  There’s another load of TV games from JAKKS Pacific,
Senario, Tech2Go and others.  We’ve added another Panorama Screen
Game &amp; Watch title: this one features the lovable comic strip canine
Snoopy.  On the arcade side, we’ve got Great Bishi Bashi Champ and Anime
Champ (both from Konami), Goori Goori (Unico), the prototype Galun.Pa!
(Capcom CPS), a censored German version of Gun.Smoke, a Japanese
location test version of DoDonPachi Dai-Ou-Jou, and more bootlegs of
Cadillacs and Dinosaurs, Final Fight, Galaxian, Pang! 3 and Warriors of
Fate.</p>

<p>In computer emulation, we’re proud to present another working UNIX
workstation: the MIPS R3000 version of Sony’s NEWS family.  NEWS was
never widespread outside Japan, so it’s very exciting to see this
running.  F.Ulivi has added support for the Swedish/Finnish and German
versions of the HP 86B, and added two service ROMs to the software list.
ICEknight contributed a cassette software list for the Timex NTSC
variants of the Sinclair home computers.  There are some nice emulation
improvements for the Luxor ABC family of computers, with the ABC 802 now
considered working.</p>

<p>Other additions include discrete audio emulation for Midway’s Gun
Fight, voice output for Filetto, support for configurable Toshiba
Pasopia PAC2 slot devices, more vgmplay features, and lots more Capcom
CPS mappers implemented according to equations from dumped PALs.  This
release also cleans up and simplifies ROM loading.  For the most part
things should work as well as or better than they did before, but MAME
will no longer find loose CHD files in top-level media directories.
This is intentional – it’s unwieldy with the number of supported
systems.</p>

<p>As usual, you can read about all the updates in the <a
href="https://mamedev.org/releases/whatsnew_0221.txt">whatsnew.txt
file</a>, or get the source and 64-bit Windows binary packages from <a
href="https://mamedev.org/release.html">the download page</a>.  This
will be the last month where we use this format for the whatsnew file –
with the increase in monthly development activity, it’s becoming
impractical to keep up.</p>
