MAME 0.219

<p>MAME 0.219 arrives today, just in time for the end of February!  This
month we’ve got another piece of Nintendo Game &amp; Watch history –
Pinball – as well as a quite a few TV games, including Dream Life
Superstar, Designer’s World, Jenna Jameson’s Strip Poker, and Champiyon
Pinball.  The previously-added Care Bears and Piglet’s Special Day
TV games are now working, as well as the big-endian version of the MIPS
Magnum R4000.  As always, the TV games vary enormously in quality, from
enjoyable titles, to low-effort games based on licensed intellectual
properties, to horrible bootlegs using blatantly copied assets.  If
music/rhythm misery is your thing, there’s even a particularly bad dance
mat game in there.</p>

<p>On the arcade side, there are fixes for a minor but long-standing
graphical issue in Capcom’s genre-defining 1942, and also a fairly
significant graphical regression in Seibu Kaihatsu’s Raiden Fighters.
Speaking of Seibu Kaihatsu, our very own Angelo Salese significantly
improved the experience in Good E-Jan, and speaking of graphics fixes,
cam900 fixed some corner cases in Data East’s innovative, but
little-known, shoot-’em-up Boogie Wings.  Software list additions
include the Commodore 64 INPUT 64 collection (courtesy of FakeShemp)
and the Spanish ZX Spectrum Load’N’Run collection (added by ICEknight).
New preliminary CPU cores and disassemblers include IBM ROMP, the
NEC 78K family, Samsung KS0164 and SSD Corp’s Xavix 2.</p>

<p>As always, there’s far more than we can fit here, and you can read
all about it in the <a
href="https://mamedev.org/releases/whatsnew_0219.txt">whatsnew.txt
file</a>, or get the source and 64-bit Windows binary packages from <a
href="https://mamedev.org/release.html">the download page</a>.</p>
