MAME 0.222

<p>MAME 0.222, the product of our May/June development cycle, is ready
today, and it’s a very exciting release.  There are lots of bug fixes,
including some long-standing issues with classics like Bosconian and
Gaplus, and missing pan/zoom effects in games on Seta hardware.  Two more
Nintendo LCD games are supported: the Panorama Screen version of Popeye,
and the two-player Donkey Kong 3 Micro Vs. System.  New versions of
supported games include a review copy of DonPachi that allows the game
to be paused for photography, and a version of the adult Qix game Gals
Panic for the Taiwanese market.</p>

<p>Other advancements on the arcade side include audio circuitry
emulation for 280-ZZZAP, and protection microcontroller emulation for
Kick and Run and Captain Silver.</p>

<p>The GRiD Compass series were possibly the first rugged computers in
the clamshell form factor, possibly best known for their use on NASA
space shuttle missions in the 1980s.  The initial model, the
Compass 1101, is now usable in MAME.  There are lots of improvements to
the Tandy Color Computer drivers in this release, with better cartridge
support being a theme.  Acorn BBC series drivers now support Solidisk
file system ROMs.  Writing to IMD floppy images (popular for CP/M
computers) is now supported, and a critical bug affecting writes to HFE
disk images has been fixed.  Software list additions include a
collection of CDs for the SGI MIPS workstations.</p>

<p>There are several updates to Apple II emulation this month, including
support for several accelerators, a new IWM floppy controller core, and
support for using two memory cards simultaneously on the CFFA2.  As
usual, we’ve added the latest original software dumps and clean cracks
to the software lists, including lots of educational titles.</p>

<p>Finally, the memory system has been optimised, yielding performance
improvements in all emulated systems,  you no longer need to avoid
non-ASCII characters in paths when using the chdman tool, and jedutil
supports more devices.</p>

<p>You can read about all the updates in the <a
href="https://mamedev.org/releases/whatsnew_0222.txt">whatsnew.txt
file</a>, or get the source and 64-bit Windows binary packages from <a
href="https://mamedev.org/release.html">the download page</a>.</p>
